RUM-10326: Create migration guide to v3 (#2413)
DataDog/dd-sdk-ios: MIGRATION.md

# Migration Guide

This document outlines breaking changes and migration steps between major versions of the project.

## Migration from 2.x to 3.0

This section describes the main changes introduced in SDK `3.0` compared to `2.x`.

### Product Modules 

> All SDK products (RUM, Trace, Logs, SessionReplay, etc) remain modular and separated into distinct libraries. The only notable change is the removal of the `DatadogObjc` module, whose contents have been integrated into their respective product modules.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
All SDK products (RUM, Trace, Logs, SessionReplay, and so on) remain modular and separated into distinct libraries. The main change is that the DatadogObjc` module has been removed, with its contents integrated into the corresponding product modules.
```

                .product(name: "DatadogRUM", package: "dd-sdk-ios"),
                .product(name: "DatadogSessionReplay", package: "dd-sdk-ios"),
                .product(name: "DatadogTrace", package: "dd-sdk-ios"),
                .product(name: "DatadogWebViewTracking", package: "dd-sdk-ios"),
            ]
        ),
    ]
)
  ```
</details>

<details>
  <summary>CocoaPods</summary>

  ```ruby
  pod 'DatadogCore'
  pod 'DatadogCrashReporting'
  pod 'DatadogLogs'
  pod 'DatadogRUM'
  pod 'DatadogSessionReplay'
  pod 'DatadogTrace'
  pod 'DatadogWebViewTracking'
  ```
</details>

<details>
  <summary>Carthage</summary>

  The `Cartfile` remains the same: 
  ```
  github "DataDog/dd-sdk-ios"
  ```

  In Xcode, you **must** link the following frameworks:
  ```
  DatadogCore.xcframework
  DatadogInternal.xcframework
  ```

  Then select the product modules you intend to use:
  ```
  DatadogCrashReporting.xcframework + CrashReporter.xcframework
  DatadogLogs.xcframework
  DatadogRUM.xcframework
  DatadogSessionReplay.xcframework
  DatadogTrace.xcframework
  DatadogWebViewTracking.xcframework
  ```
</details>

### SDK Configuration

> The SDK should be initialized as early as possible in the app lifecycle, specifically in the `AppDelegate`'s `application(_:didFinishLaunchingWithOptions:)` callback. This ensures all measurements, including application startup duration, are captured correctly. For apps built with SwiftUI, you can use `@UIApplicationDelegateAdaptor` to hook into the `AppDelegate`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The SDK should be initialized as early as possible in the app lifecycle, specifically in the `AppDelegate`'s `application(_:didFinishLaunchingWithOptions:)` callback. This ensures accurate measurement of all metrics, including application startup duration. For apps built with SwiftUI, use `@UIApplicationDelegateAdaptor` to access the `AppDelegate`.
```

```swift
import DatadogCore

Datadog.initialize(
    with: Datadog.Configuration(
        clientToken: "<client token>",
        env: "<environment>",
        service: "<service name>"
    ), 
    trackingConsent: .granted
)
```

**Note**: Initializing the SDK elsewhere (for example later during view loading) may result in inaccurate or missing telemetry, especially around app startup performance.

### RUM Product Changes

> RUM View level attributes are now automatically propagated to all related child events, including resources, user actions, errors, and long tasks. This ensures consistent metadata across events for better filtering and correlation in Datadog dashboards.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
RUM View-level attributes are now automatically propagated to all related child events, including resources, user actions, errors, and long tasks. This ensures consistent metadata across events, making it easier to filter and correlate data in Datadog dashboards.
```

To manage View level attributes more effectively, new APIs were added:
- `Monitor.addViewAttribute(forKey:value:)`
- `Monitor.addViewAttributes(_:)`
- `Monitor.removeViewAttribute(forKey:)`
- `Monitor.removeViewAttributes(forKeys:)`

Other notable changes:
- All Objective-C RUM APIs are now included in `DatadogRUM`. The separate `DatadogObjc` module is no longer available.
- App Hangs and Watchdog terminations are no longer reported from app extensions or widgets.

> - A new property `trackMemoryWarnings` was added to `RUM.Configuration`.

Reviewer 2: Should we say what it does too?

Author: Yes. It improves the point.

API changes:

|`2.x`|`3.0`|
|---|---|
|-|`RUM.Configuration.trackMemoryWarnings`|
|`RUMView(path:attributes:)`|`RUMView(name:attributes:isUntrackedModal:)`|
|-|`Monitor.addViewAttribute(forKey:value:)`|
|-|`Monitor.addViewAttributes(:)`|
|-|`Monitor.removeViewAttribute(forKey:)`|
|-|`Monitor.removeViewAttributes(forKeys:)`|

### Logs Product Changes

> The Logs product no longer reports fatal errors. To enable Error Tracking for crashes, Crash Reporting must be enabled in conjunction with RUM only.

Reviewer 2: I don't understand this sentence with "only". Do I understand correctly that Crash Reporting + RUM must be enabled to get Error Tracking?

```suggestion
The Logs product no longer reports fatal errors. To enable Error Tracking for crashes, Crash Reporting must be enabled in conjunction with RUM.
```

> Additionally all Objective-C Logs APIs are now included in `DatadogLogs`. The separate `DatadogObjc` module is no longer available.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Additionally, all Objective-C Logs APIs are now included in `DatadogLogs`. The separate `DatadogObjc` module is no longer available.
```

### APM Trace Product Changes

> Trace sampling is now deterministic when used alongside RUM. It uses the RUM `session.id` for consistent sampling.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Trace sampling is now deterministic when used alongside RUM. It uses the RUM `session.id` to ensure consistent sampling.
```

Also:

> - The `Trace.Configuration.URLSessionTracking.FirstPartyHostsTracing` configuration sets sampling for all requests  by default and the trace context is injected only into sampled requests.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The `Trace.Configuration.URLSessionTracking.FirstPartyHostsTracing` configuration sets sampling for all requests by default and the trace context is injected only into sampled requests.
```

- All Objective-C Trace APIs are now included in `DatadogTrace`. The separate `DatadogObjc` module is no longer available.

**Note**: A similar configuration exists in `RUM.Configuration.URLSessionTracking.FirstPartyHostsTracing`.

### Session Replay Product Changes

Privacy settings are now more granular. The previous `defaultPrivacyLevel` parameter has been replaced by:
- `textAndInputPrivacyLevel`
- `imagePrivacyLevel`
- `touchPrivacyLevel`

API changes:

|`2.x`|`3.0`|
|---|---|
|`SessionReplay.Configuration(replaySampleRate:defaultPrivacyLevel:startRecordingImmediately:customEndpoint:)`|`SessionReplay.Configuration(replaySampleRate:textAndInputPrivacyLevel:imagePrivacyLevel:touchPrivacyLevel:startRecordingImmediately:customEndpoint:featureFlags:)`|
|`SessionReplay.Configuration(replaySampleRate:defaultPrivacyLevel:startRecordingImmediately:customEndpoint:)`|`SessionReplay.Configuration(replaySampleRate:textAndInputPrivacyLevel:imagePrivacyLevel:touchPrivacyLevel:startRecordingImmediately:customEndpoint:featureFlags:)`|

### URLSession Instrumentation Changes

> The legacy delegate types have been replaced by a unified instrumentation API:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Legacy delegate types have been replaced by a unified instrumentation API:
```

  ```
  DatadogCore.xcframework
  DatadogInternal.xcframework
  ```

  Then select the product modules you intend to use:
  ```
  DatadogCrashReporting.xcframework + CrashReporter.xcframework
  DatadogLogs.xcframework
  DatadogRUM.xcframework
  DatadogSessionReplay.xcframework
  DatadogTrace.xcframework
  DatadogWebViewTracking.xcframework
  ```
</details>

### SDK Configuration

The SDK should be initialized as early as possible in the app lifecycle, specifically in the `AppDelegate`'s `application(_:didFinishLaunchingWithOptions:)` callback. This ensures accurate measurement of all metrics, including application startup duration. For apps built with SwiftUI, use `@UIApplicationDelegateAdaptor` to access the `AppDelegate`.

```swift
import DatadogCore

Datadog.initialize(
    with: Datadog.Configuration(
        clientToken: "<client token>",
        env: "<environment>",
        service: "<service name>"
    ), 
    trackingConsent: .granted
)
```

**Note**: Initializing the SDK elsewhere (for example later during view loading) may result in inaccurate or missing telemetry, especially around app startup performance.

### RUM Product Changes

> RUM View-level attributes are now automatically propagated to all related child events, including resources, user actions, errors, and long tasks. This ensures consistent metadata across events, making it easier to filter and correlate data in Datadog dashboards.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
RUM View-level attributes are now automatically propagated to all related child events, including resources, user actions, errors, and long tasks. This ensures consistent metadata across events, making it easier to filter and correlate data on Datadog dashboards.
```
